Renaissance - The Renaissance was a period of time where people began rediscovering classical texts and art from ancient Greece and Rome that changed and arose new values socially, politically, and religiously in Europe.
Individualism - Individualism. (Renaissance), stressed personality, uniqueness, genius, and full development of one's talents and capabilities, quest for glory.
Vernacular - Vernacular: the native language of a locality, which allowed authors to reach a broader section of society than Latin did, and promoted the development of local culture.
Northern Renaissance - The Northern Renaissance refers to the period of Renaissance that occurred in Europe north of the Alps. Unlike the Italian Renaissance that was influenced by Ancient Rome, this period was characterized by a greater emphasis on religion and less focus on the classical antiquity.
Civic Humanism - Civic Humanism. Modeled on Cicero, the belief that it was an intellectual's civic duty to be involved in politics and help the communtiy.
 Patronage of the arts - Patronage in the context of European history refers to the support, encouragement, privilege, or financial aid that an organization or individual bestows upon another. In the Renaissance period, it was often provided by wealthy individuals like nobles or church officials to artists, musicians and scholars.
Humanism - Humanism. the scholarly interest in the study of classical texts, values and styles of Greece and Rome. Humanism contributed to the promotion of a liberal arts education based on the study of the classics, rhetoric, and history.
Printing press - A machine invented by Johann GutenbergJohann GutenbergJohannes Gensfleisch zur Laden zum Gutenberg ( c. 1393–1406 – 3 February 1468) was a German inventor and craftsman who invented the movable-type printing press. Though movable type was already in use in East Asia, Gutenberg's invention of the printing press enabled a much faster rate of printing.https://en.wikipedia.org › wiki › Johannes_GutenbergJohannes Gutenberg - Wikipedia that creates copies of texts through an impression on a paper sheet—an innovation that revolutionized book production and distribution during Renaissance Europe.
 Niccolo Macchiavelli - Niccolo Machiavelli. French man who gave expression to the Renaissance preoccupation with political power. Wrote The PrinceThe PrinceThe Prince (Italian: Il Principe [il ˈprintʃipe]; Latin: De Principatibus) is a 16th-century political treatise written by the Italian diplomat, philosopher, and political theorist Niccolò Machiavelli in the form of a realistic instruction guide for new princes.https://en.wikipedia.org › wiki › The_PrinceThe Prince - Wikipedia. Believed a ruler should behave on Christian moral principals and understanding of the human nature.
Secularism - Secularism. Secularism is a belief system that rejects religion, or the belief that religion should not be part of the affairs of the state or part of public education. Separation of Church and State.
Jacob Burckhardt - Jacob Burckhardt (born May 25, 1818, Basel, Switzerland—died August 8, 1897, Basel) was one of the first great historians of art and culture, whose Die Kultur der Renaissance in Italien (1860; The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy, 1878, reprinted 1945) became a model for the treatment of cultural history in ...
Petrach - Francesco Petrarch. Known as the father of Renaissance HumanismRenaissance HumanismRenaissance humanism was a worldview centered on the nature and importance of humanity that emerged from the study of Classical antiquity. This first began in Italy and then spread across Western Europe in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries.https://en.wikipedia.org › wiki › Renaissance_humanismRenaissance humanism - Wikipedia. He lived from 1304-1374 as a cleric and committed his life to humanistic pursuits and careful study of the classics. He resisted writing in the Italian vernacular except for his sonnets, which were composed to his "lady love" who spoke no Latin.
Sack of Rome - Sack of Rome, an attack on the city of Rome on May 6, 1527, by the forces of the Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain, Charles V. Charles's victory over the French at Pavia in 1525 had left his armies dominant in Italy.
Johann Gutenberg - Johannes Gutenberg. The European inventor of the printing press, which allowed books to be printed quickly and economically. He used his invention to print copies of the Bible.
 Jan Van Eyck - Jan van Eyck. (c. 1395-1441) Flemish painter who was a founder of the Flemish school of painting and pioneered modern techniques of oil painting. Perfected oil painting, wood panel paintings (religious symbolism), and had great detail in his works.
 Lorenzo Valla - Lorenzo Valla, an Italian Catholic priest and Renaissance humanistRenaissance humanistRenaissance humanism was a worldview centered on the nature and importance of humanity that emerged from the study of Classical antiquity. This first began in Italy and then spread across Western Europe in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries.https://en.wikipedia.org › wiki › Renaissance_humanismRenaissance humanism - Wikipedia, is credited with first exposing the forgery with solid philological arguments in 1439-1440, although the document's authenticity had already been repeatedly contested since 1001.
 Leonardo da Vinci - Leonardo Da Vinci. Leonardo Da Vinci was a famous Renaissance artist who was a painter, sculptor, and inventor. Two of his most famous paintings were Mona Lisa and The Last Supper; he epitomized the Italian RenaissanceItalian RenaissanceThe Italian Renaissance (Italian: Rinascimento [rinaʃʃiˈmento]) was a period in Italian history between the 14th and 16th centuries. The period is known for the initial development of the broader Renaissance culture that spread across Western Europe and marked the transition from the Middle Ages to modernity.https://en.wikipedia.org › wiki › Italian_RenaissanceItalian Renaissance - Wikipedia man. His skills were not only of art rather he was also a musician, architect, astronomer, etc.
 Pieter Brueghel the Elder - Definition. Pieter Bruegel the Elder was a Netherlandish artist from the 16th century known for his landscapes and peasant scenes which were innovative depictions at this time period.
 Marsalis Ficino - Marsilio Ficino was a Florentine philosopher, translator, and commentator, largely responsible for the revival of Plato and Platonism in the Renaissance.
 Michelangelo - Michelangelo (1475-1564) was an accomplished painter, sculptor, and architect during the High Renaissance. In 1508, Pope Julius II commissioned Michelangelo to decorate the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, which he finished in 1512.
 Louis Xl - Definition. Louis XIV, also known as Louis the Great or the Sun King, was a monarch who ruled as King of France from 1643 until his death in 1715. His reign of 72 years is the longest recorded of any monarch in European history.
 Pico Della Mirandola - Pico della Mirandola was an Italian Renaissance philosopher who wrote the "Oration On The Dignity Of Man" in 1486. He believed in the potential of humans to achieve greatness through their free will and unlimited capacity for self-improvement.
 Donatello - Donatello was an early Renaissance ItalianRenaissance ItalianThe Italian Renaissance (Italian: Rinascimento [rinaʃʃiˈmento]) was a period in Italian history between the 14th and 16th centuries. The period is known for the initial development of the broader Renaissance culture that spread across Western Europe and marked the transition from the Middle Ages to modernity.https://en.wikipedia.org › wiki › Italian_RenaissanceItalian Renaissance - Wikipedia artist and sculptor from Florence known for his work in bas-reliefbas-reliefBas-relief is a type of relief (sculpture) that has less depth to the faces and figures than they actually have, when measured proportionately (to scale). This technique keeps the natural shapes of the figures and allows the work to be seen from many angles without twisting the figures themselves.https://simple.wikipedia.org › wiki › Bas-reliefBas-relief - Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia, a form of shallow relief sculpture.
 Francis  - Advanced Placement (AP) European History (also known as AP Euro, or APEH), is a course and examination offered by the College Board through the Advanced Placement Program.
 Leonardo Bruni - Leonardo Bruni (1370-1444) was a humanisthumanistRenaissance humanism was a worldview centered on the nature and importance of humanity that emerged from the study of Classical antiquity. This first began in Italy and then spread across Western Europe in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries.https://en.wikipedia.org › wiki › Renaissance_humanismRenaissance humanism - Wikipedia, Florentine patriot, and chancellor of the city who wrote a biography of Cicero titled The New Cicero. From Bruni's time on, Cicero served as the inspiration for the Renaissance ideal that it was the duty of the individual to live an active life for one's state.
 Raphael - Raphael Sanzio. Urbino, Italy Painter (1483-1520) Chief Architect of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome and the master of frescoes such as "the School of Athens," he is noted for his madonnas. He was part of the trinity of great 15th-century artists including Leo da Vinci and Michelangelo.
 Henry VIE - Dead bodies filled every corner." Great Schism (1378-1415): In the year 1378, the Roman Catholic Church split when the King of France decided that he did not like the Italian Pope and elected one of his own. During the Great Schism, there were two popes claiming authority over the Catholic Church.
 Latin Vulgate - Latin Vulgate. the authorized version of the Bible for the Catholic Church.
Erasmus - 
 Star Chamber - Court of the Star Chamber. A division of the English royal council, a court that used Roman legal procedures to curb real or potential threats from the nobility, so named because of the stars painted on the ceiling of the chamber in which the court sat. ( 400)
 Baldassare Castiglione - Baldassare Castiglione (1478-1529) a Civic Humanist, he wrote the book "The Courtier" (1528), and believed that the educated man should have a broad background in many skills; "The Courtier" is one of the most widely read books that influenced the idea of the "Renaissance man".
 Albercht Durer - Albrecht Dürer (1471-1528) Dürer was the first Northern Renaissance artist to fully absorb the innovations of the Italian RenaissanceItalian RenaissanceThe Italian Renaissance (Italian: Rinascimento [rinaʃʃiˈmento]) was a period in Italian history between the 14th and 16th centuries. The period is known for the initial development of the broader Renaissance culture that spread across Western Europe and marked the transition from the Middle Ages to modernity.https://en.wikipedia.org › wiki › Italian_RenaissanceItalian Renaissance - Wikipedia. He is best known for his woodcuts and self-portraits.
 Ferdinand & Isabella - The book's message of peace resonated in the U.S. However, it did not resonate with everyone. Adolf Hitler and Francisco Franco viewed the book as dangerous pacifist propaganda, leading to its ban in Spain and burning in Germany.
 Filipo Brunelleschi - Filippo Brunelleschi was an Italian architect and engineer who is credited with developing linear perspective during the Italian RenaissanceItalian RenaissanceThe Italian Renaissance (Italian: Rinascimento [rinaʃʃiˈmento]) was a period in Italian history between the 14th and 16th centuries. The period is known for the initial development of the broader Renaissance culture that spread across Western Europe and marked the transition from the Middle Ages to modernity.https://en.wikipedia.org › wiki › Italian_RenaissanceItalian Renaissance - Wikipedia.
